the United Nations says nearly 340,000
people have been forced to leave their
homes in Gaza with fears of a
humanitarian crisis growing as Israel
continues to launch air strikes against
the territory the footage you're about
to see was released by the Israeli
military Israel says it's hitting
targets linked to the terrorist group
Hamas in retaliation for its
unprecedented attacks over the weekend
that killed at least 1,200 people in
Israel meanwhile Palestinian author
ities in Gaza say more than a thousand
people have been killed there from
Israeli
strikes gazer is also lacking
electricity after its only power station
ran out of fuel people are using
generators to power their homes but
Israel's blockade means they too will
soon run dry food water and medical
supplies are also running
[Music]
low emergency vehicles arrive
nonstop transporting wounded
Palestinians to hospitals in Gaza
medical workers must act fast to save as
many injured as
possible while there is still hope for
some families that their relatives can
be
saved many others are left to Grapple
with their
loss in an effort to Aid civilians
trapped in Gaza the Palestinian
representative to the UN pleaded for
humanitarian assistance we will continue
the uh contacts with everyone including
the security Council so that the
International Community to shoulder its
responsibility in stepping to the to the
picture and in putting uh an end to this
Onslaught against our people but more
importantly that would require of course
sending humanitarian assistance to the
uh 2
million3 uh of Palestinians who live in
the Gaza Strip uh there has to be a
humanitarian intervention in order to uh
to avoid uh a looming
catastrophe echon his words the World
Health Organization want of dwindling
medical
supplies we need more trauma supplies uh
we need intravenous fluids we need
bandages we need anesthetic equipment we
need surgical equipment
uh and you know all the different
supplies uh equipment medicines that you
may need uh for for major traumatic
injuries whether they be head wounds
chest wounds abdominal wounds uh uh
fractured Lings uh and burns and so on
as diplomatic efforts to open
humanitarian corridors to people in Gaza
continue There is fear that for many
Palestinians help me not arrive soon
enough and for more on this we're going
to go over now to Jerusalem and talk to
shy Lo who is spokesperson with the
Norwegian Refugee Council thank you for
coming on to the program your
organization is on the ground in Gaza
what are you hearing from
there yeah so I just spoke about 30
minutes ago to my colleague in Gaza uh
he said that last night was an extremely
difficult night the bombardments were
continuing uh all throughout the night
he told me of a number of air strikes
that resulted in massive Ian casualties
uh this morning uh or last night rather
uh the house behind where my colleague
was staying was hit with an air strike
thankfully he and his my colleague and
his family were unharmed but because of
the blackout uh they were unable to even
clean up safely the glass that had
shattered from their Windows um because
they just could not see in the dark this
morning he described to me challenges in
just getting around uh Gaza shortages in
bread uh being able to to make the way
make a make it to be able to to navigate
the streets which are filled with rubble
and difficult to to navigate the
situation in Gaza is truly um
unbelievable in terms of the the
humanitarian crisis we're facing yeah
Shina and part of the reason this is so
acute is because it's it's apparent that
no Aid is getting into into Gaza because
of uh the blockade what do you fear if
this blockade
continues
I mean we are fearing an even larger
humanitarian catastrophe than the one
that we're already witnessing right now
uh the supplies in Gaza are very limited
there already was a Siege on Gaza even
prior to this total siege that was
imposed over the last week and so what
we are hearing from our colleagues is
that supplies are dwindling food prices
are already on the rise bakeries are
saying that they have less than a week
supply of of material of of uh of food
uh and and ingredients I mean this is
this is literally going to be 2.3
million Palestinians uh trapped inside
of Gaza with no relief in sight uh
unless unless there's uh unless there's
an opening of humanitarian corridors for
the entry of of Aid and other Provisions
sh I want us to talk specifically here
about the uh the aid that's needed um in
respect to the emergency response
helping the wounded uh as as the air
strikes and the bombardment on the
territory uh continues what needs to
happen to be able to save civilian
lives I mean first and foremost there
needs to be electricity restored to the
Gaza Strip hospitals are operating on
emergency generators and will soon run
out of supplies and fuel for those we
need medical equipment medical supplies
yesterday there was the announcement
that all of the hospital beds in Gaza
were full um I mean this is a a a
humanitarian catastrophe that is
happening before us and and there needs
to be uh assistance both in terms of
restoration of water electricity fuel um
food medicine access to medicine and
other uh medical supplies they all need
to be let into Gaza immediately all
right Shina low is with the Norwegian
Refugee Council she's talking to us from
Jerusalem we appreciate uh you're coming
on to the program Shina thank you
thank
you and now we are going to go to Gaza
where hisam Mana is standing by for us
he's a Communications officer with the
international Committee of the Red Cross
joins me by phone uh it's very difficult
right now to establish uh good
connections um thank you so much uh for
coming on to to the program if you can
hear me I'd like to start by just asking
you what you're seeing on the ground
there where you
are
what we're seeing is absolutely
unprecedented we are witnessing a a
catastrophe of um of Hope a crisis and
the humanitarian
situation uh complete shutdown of the
sole uh Power Plant of the Gaza Strip
that feeds uh households or what's left
of the neighborhoods uh uh and the
infrastructure feeding them but also um
hospitals um across all the G STP are
imped the water and water sector is
paralyzed at the moment in the vast
areas of the Gaza STP this would lead if
the situation continues like this to an
environmental crisis because sewage is
pumped into or mixing with the with the
water you know infrastructure um so this
is also an imminent risk that we are
alarmed by but focusing on the medical
situation in G STP which is a
catastrophe the Ministry of Health has
called for immediate injury of medical
supplies equipment and fuel to run uh
keep the hospital running and there are
hundreds of seriously injured patients
uh who are connected to oxygen supply
there are newborns who are living inside
incubators and one of the hospitals that
include that incubators got damaged and
that section in specific was partially
damaged uh we have witness targeting of
medical uh staff yesterday four of the
emergency medical team of the palestin
chrisan society uh were IMM were like
directly targeted and they were killed
um while conducting their humanitarian
Mission rescuing injuries um the
hospitals now are suffering from Fear
shortage in the medical supplies many
not most of
the ham I I just want to to come in
there and continue our conversation I'm
hearing you say that you you've
witnessed um medical staff being
directly targeted that would be of
course a very serious um allegation over
there perhaps you can expand on that but
but also while you're at it Hisham what
would you say is most needed right now
in in in
Gaza the most needed thing in Gaza now
is strain the escalation and to to allow
the humanitarian Aid fuel food and medic
and medication into the G St uh this is
the most pressing uh need now to
continue saving lives and to prevent the
humanitarian situation from further
deterioration into a complete full
crisis and how long how long do you
think um what is your assessment about
how long civilians can hold on without
help there are still families under the
rubble uh some of them lost some of
their peers like lost hope of of of
having them back some are still the
unreachable by the civil defense because
the lack of equipment and the lack of
safe access to to these locations uh so
that's one side of the story the
civilians in Gaza like entire
neighborhoods were asked to evacuate
without clear safe passages and some of
like hundreds of families have to
relocate for two three times in one day
seeking Safe Haven uh there's a crisis
of Hope and there's absolute um lack of
sense of Safety and Security and now
families fear for their children if
they're going to witness the next
morning yeah his
what do you need right now from the
International Community uh in in in this
regard as as you're talking to us hisam
we can see pictures of the devastation
uh in Gaza we see buildings that have
been raised flattened and and you're
telling us there are potentially
families and under some of this Rubble
what would be your message uh to the
International Community um from the uh
uh uh Red Cross operating in Gaza right
now
[Music]
yes uh uh there has to be a full respect
of the international humanitarian law
that calls for the protection of
civilians civilian properties medical
commissions uh uh this is uh and also um
um infrastructure that's uh important
and vital to continue feeding people
with water energy uh and medical health
care this is uh uh the utmost concern of
the rcrc and this is what we have been
calling for and this is what we have
trying to you know to force with the the
both sides of the conflict civilians
should not pay the heavy cost every
single time and every round of
escalation they should be not paying uh
you know the prize for the failure of a
political solution to end this
escalation that has been lasting for
decades we have been existing here since
1967 in Israel and the occupied
territories we have never witnessed that
large scale of Devastation in a matter
of a few days so uh what we are asking
for is uh full Restraint of violence to
to protect civilians protect civilian
properties to allow the medical missions
to reach safely to those who are injured
and most importantly now also to allow
the entry of the humanitarian Aid the
required food medication to save uh 2.3
million people plus all right that is
the voice of Hisham Mana he is
Communications officer with the
international uh Committee of the Red
Cross talking to us from Gaza we
appreciate that uh Hisham and all the
best to you and your colleagues as you
continue the work you're doing in
Gaza thank
you now many of the hundreds of
thousands of displaced people in Gaza
are seeking help from the United Nation
CW visited a family in one un facility
where assistance is certain to be
stretched to the limit in the coming
days they are 13 in all umani alula and
her immediate family they found a degree
of safety at a un run school not far
from the Egyptian
border on the first day of the war we
saw missiles flying over our
heads our neighborhood is
dangerous it's on the Eastern side we
were afraid to stay home God knows how
we got out but we escaped our
circumstances are difficult this is not
a solution
the children need milk and diapers anra
can't offer us anything this is our
fourth day at the
school I have high blood pressure and
diabetes and I can't get
medication hundreds of thousands have
fled like umani Al gul's family most but
not all before their homes and
neighborhoods were reduced to Rubble
Israel is retaliating for the crossb
terrorist attacks and hostage taking by
Hamas the Israeli Defense Forces say
they they are focused on Hamas related
targets unra the United Nations relief
and works agency is providing shelter in
spaces like this it's tight and getting
tighter but for umani Al gul's family it
seems safer than their
[Music]
home there are large numbers of
Palestinians in unra schools we provide
them with Health Care food we provide
clean water and also psychological
support but the numbers are growing
hugely one's capacity is for 150,000
displaced Palestinians and beyond that
it is a big problem a financial problem
a problem with absorbing all of these
people there is also the problem of the
people needed to help
them Beyond The Limited space in the UN
displacement centers each of them is
impacted by Israel's Complete Siege of
the Gaza Strip it's cut off food water
medicines and
electricity we were living in a safe
place the war broke out the strikes
began without warning and we were forced
to leave we walked about 7 km until we
arrived here hoping to find a safe place
it's not like that here and this is not
suitable for living there is no water no
food the sewage system is broken it's
not suitable for
living umani alula and her family will
have to get by in a six meter wide room
as they wait for an end to what could
become a drawn out Siege and
War well the White House says that the
US is working with Israel and Egypt in
an attempt to set up safe corridors for
civilians in Gaza Egypt's President also
says that he's intensifying efforts to
contain this conflict the Rafa Crossing
on the Egyptian border was the last hope
for gazin trying to flee but it is now
closed unverified footage from social
media which you see right here claims to
show a large crowd near the crossing as
bombs were falling nearby the United
Nations says the bombardment has
displaced more than 260,000
Gins but with the crossing now shut
there's little chance of Escape for any
of the 2.3 million residents of
G well AFP journalist bahir Ami joins me
now from Cairo B tell us about the
situation right now at the Rafa border
crossing uh at this moment the latest
information we have is that the raah
border crossing has remained closed
since yesterday after it was hit by
three Israeli air strikes within 24
hours um The Crossing as you said is the
only access point into and out of Gaza
that is not controlled by Israel uh it
is the only potential humanitarian
Corridor in the middle of what Israel
has announced to be a complete Siege uh
between Monday evening and Tuesday
afternoon uh there were three year
rounds of strikes on the Palestinian
side of the border crossing which
damaged the facility we have
eyewitnesses yesterday seeing saying
Egyptian employees were evacuated from
the area dozens of Palestinian families
who had been trying to get back into
Gaza were turned back towards the
Egyptian town of Alish um Egypt as you
said has set it intents to keep the
crossing open has pushed for
humanitarian humanitarian Aid to get
through uh foreign minister SE shuk said
today the government is committed to
getting Aid through we know there have
been attempts uh on the Egyptian side at
least one shipment of Medical Aid from
the Egyptian Red cresant made it through
on Monday before the first air strike um
and ever since calls for Aid of
multiplied the latest came today from
the meeting of the Arab League foreign
ministers uh who also called for the
seat to be lifted and then again from
the United Nations as you said um so
there has been this concerted push to
make sure that medicine food fuel
Emergency Equipment all make it a Gaza
but what that will actually look like
remains to be seen yeah we know that
before the Border closed Egypt was
letting in a limited number of
Palestinians um is Egypt now fearing
Mass displacement of people I mean is
Egypt willing to have a ref Refugee
crisis come onto its
territory um so the situation now is
that Egypt has already committed itself
on Aid getting through to Gaza but what
it has not done is indicate that it will
be accepting refugees at all um Cairo is
in a situation it finds historically
very complex um again this is the only
access point to Gaza not under Israeli
control there's a push to allow
civilians to come into Egypt um the US
has said it is coordinating with both
Israel and Egypt to gu safe passage for
civilians but that's something Egypt has
historically not allowed um there have
been no official statements from
Egyptian authorities but there is
something very telling in the statements
that state aligned media have been
sharing um which cite high level
security forces in saying that Egypt
stands solidly against proposals of
settling the people of Gaza in Sinai
which they say only serves the
occupation only the occupation only
serves Israel's interests um and there
is a historical fear I called by
Palestinians and a larger a popular
discourse that if Palestinians were to
leave their homes in search of safety in
the case of attack they would lose their
homes um at the same time there is a
call for those who would want to leave
to be allowed to um and now you're
seeing sources very close to the
Egyptian government saying that
Palestinians are being forced to choose
between death under Israeli bombing or
displacement from their land yeah um but
as you say even in times of relative
calm Passage through RAF is very tightly
controlled it's prohibitive slow it's
expensive bureaucratic limited to
humanitarian cases um so what remains to
be seen was going to happen but
president CeCe was also very careful to
release a statement saying that Egypt's
National Security is his primary
responsibility okay AFP journalist B I
mean with the ladies tonight from Cairo
bahira thank
you